Updated faq.md (#61)
UWindsorCSS/wiki: careers/faq.md

slug: /faq
---

> #### REMIDNER

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### REMINDER
```

Reviewer 2: glad its still LF

Please keep in mind that you must complete the Transform course in your second year before accepting any Co-op placements. Likewise, if you are enrolled in Co-op, you can only apply for jobs when you are partaking in the Job Competition.

#### Can I do an internship/Co-op during my first year?

Companies use the terms internship and Co-op differently. For both types of positions, some companies will require students to be in a registered program, while others won't. If the company does not require you to be a registered Co-op/Internship students, then yes, you can apply for the position in 1st year.

> Co-op students begin their journey in the Fall of 2nd year where they partake in a non-credit course called Transform to prepare you with job readiness skills such as resume writing, mock itnerviews, etc. In Winter of 2nd year, this is when students enter the Job Competition where they apply for jobs on mySuccess and for roles they find on their own. Summer of 2nd year is when students start their first work term. This default sequence can be changed to suit your needs, and we recommend reaching out to coop@uwindsor.ca for further information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Co-op students begin their journey in the Fall of 2nd year where they partake in a non-credit course called Transform to prepare you with job readiness skills such as resume writing, mock interviews, etc. In Winter of 2nd year, this is when students enter the Job Competition where they apply for jobs on mySuccess and for roles they find on their own. Summer of 2nd year is when students start their first work term. This default sequence can be changed to suit your needs, and we recommend reaching out to coop@uwindsor.ca for further information.
```

#### What is the difference between a Co-op and internship?

> Co-ops and internships are closely connected though have a few differences. The prime difference depends on if the employer requires you to be enrolled in a Co-op program. Co-op positions (and some internship opportunities) require you to be enrolled in a Co-op program, meanwhile most internship opportunities do not require you to be enrolled in a Co-op program. In essence, being enrolled in Co-op allows you to apply for both Co-op and internship opportunities, while not being enrolled in Co-op only limits you to applying to internship opportunities. Sometimes companies amy misuse the word internship when they actually mean Co-op, though to make sure, review the job description, and check if needing to be enrolled in a Co-op program is required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Co-ops and internships are closely connected though have a few differences. The prime difference depends on if the employer requires you to be enrolled in a Co-op program. Co-op positions (and some internship opportunities) require you to be enrolled in a Co-op program, meanwhile most internship opportunities do not require you to be enrolled in a Co-op program. In essence, being enrolled in Co-op allows you to apply for both Co-op and internship opportunities, while not being enrolled in Co-op only limits you to applying to internship opportunities. Sometimes companies may misuse the word internship when they actually mean Co-op and vice versa, though to make sure, review the job description, and check if needing to be enrolled in a Co-op program is required.
```

> Up until now, the definition of Co-op and internship works best for Undergraduate and Master of Science students. However, Master of Applied Computing (MAC) students follow slightly different rules. Technically, MAC students are told they apply to internships only, but in reality, they can apply to both Co-op and internship roles as they are registered in a Co-op program. The reason that MAC students apply to "internships" relies on the second difference of Co-ops and internships; length of duration. Co-ops usually require 8 - 16 months of experience to graduate, though internships only require 4 months of experience. Undergradaute students require 3 work terms to graduate, and Master of Scieence students require 2 works term to graduate. However, MAC students only require 1 work term to graduate, hence why the Co-op office informs MAC students that they are applying for internships as the work term requirements are much shorter comapred to other programs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Up until now, the definition of Co-op and internship works best for Undergraduate and Master of Science students. However, Master of Applied Computing (MAC) students follow slightly different rules. Technically, MAC students are told they apply to internships only, but in reality, they can apply to both Co-op and internship roles as they are registered in a Co-op program. The reason that MAC students apply to "internships" relies on the second difference of Co-ops and internships; length of duration. Co-ops usually require 8 - 16 months of experience to graduate, though internships only require 4 months of experience. Undergraduate students require 3 work terms to graduate, and Master of Science students require 2 works term to graduate. However, MAC students only require 1 work term to graduate, hence why the Co-op office informs MAC students that they are applying for internships as the work term requirements are much shorter compared to other programs.
```

> Up until now, the definition of Co-op and internship works best for Undergraduate and Master of Science students. However, Master of Applied Computing (MAC) students follow slightly different rules. Technically, MAC students are told they apply to internships only, but in reality, they can apply to both Co-op and internship roles as they are registered in a Co-op program. The reason that MAC students apply to "internships" relies on the second difference of Co-ops and internships; length of duration. Co-ops usually require 8 - 16 months of experience to graduate, though internships only require 4 months of experience. Undergradaute students require 3 work terms to graduate, and Master of Scieence students require 2 works term to graduate. However, MAC students only require 1 work term to graduate, hence why the Co-op office informs MAC students that they are applying for internships as the work term requirements are much shorter comapred to other programs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Up until now, the definition of Co-op and internship works best for Undergraduate and Master of Science students. However, Master of Applied Computing (MAC) students follow slightly different rules. Technically, MAC students are told they apply to internships only, but in reality, they can apply to both Co-op and internship roles as they are registered in a Co-op program. The reason that MAC students apply to "internships" relies on the second difference of Co-ops and internships; length of duration. Co-ops usually require 8 - 16 months of experience to graduate, though internships only require 4 months of experience. Undergraduate students registered in Co-op require 3 work terms to graduate, and Master of Science students require 2 works term to graduate. However, MAC students only require 1 work term to graduate, hence why the Co-op office informs MAC students that they are applying for internships as the work term requirements are much shorter compared to other programs.
```

```
 Co-ops usually require 8 - 16 months of experience to graduate, though internships only require 4 months of experience.
 ```
 does this mean co-op jobs or the co-op department? im not sure that it is accurate about co-ops requiring 8-16 months. I know it is more true for older institutions(like IBM, the government) but I would say its not completely true anymore.

#### Should I pay for Co-op or just go for internships?

> Do both! Co-op is an excellent way to land your first Co-op/internship if you are jsut entering the world of tech. This is because there are jobs exclusive to students; therefore, those job postigs have smaller pools of competition and the expectations of the job are more junior in nature. You will also have a dedicated team of coordinators working in partnership with you to find and secure these opportunities where employers are provided with subsidies to hire students (i.e. they get a tax credit when hiring Co-op students). If you complete all 3 required Co-op work terms, you will will graduate with at least 12 months of full-time, relevant work experience giving you an edge in the job market post-graduation. If at any point in the program you decide to withdraw from Co-op, remember that you can no longer gain access to positions eligible for registered Co-op students, so keep this in mind when reviewing other opportunities outside of Co-op.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do both! Co-op is an excellent way to land your first Co-op/internship if you are just entering the world of tech. This is because there are jobs exclusive to students; therefore, those job postings have smaller pools of competition and the expectations of the job are more junior in nature. You will also have a dedicated team of coordinators working in partnership with you to find and secure these opportunities where employers are provided with subsidies to hire students (i.e. they get a tax credit when hiring Co-op students). If you complete all 3 required Co-op work terms, you will will graduate with at least 12 months of full-time, relevant work experience giving you an edge in the job market post-graduation. If at any point in the program you decide to withdraw from Co-op, remember that you can no longer gain access to positions eligible for registered Co-op students, so keep this in mind when reviewing other opportunities outside of Co-op.
```

> Do both! Co-op is an excellent way to land your first Co-op/internship if you are jsut entering the world of tech. This is because there are jobs exclusive to students; therefore, those job postigs have smaller pools of competition and the expectations of the job are more junior in nature. You will also have a dedicated team of coordinators working in partnership with you to find and secure these opportunities where employers are provided with subsidies to hire students (i.e. they get a tax credit when hiring Co-op students). If you complete all 3 required Co-op work terms, you will will graduate with at least 12 months of full-time, relevant work experience giving you an edge in the job market post-graduation. If at any point in the program you decide to withdraw from Co-op, remember that you can no longer gain access to positions eligible for registered Co-op students, so keep this in mind when reviewing other opportunities outside of Co-op.

Reviewer 2: I would just like to say that not every coop/internship has a dedicated team to help students. especially at smaller companies or companies where coop/internships are a lesser thing

> Do both! Co-op is an excellent way to land your first Co-op/internship if you are jsut entering the world of tech. This is because there are jobs exclusive to students; therefore, those job postigs have smaller pools of competition and the expectations of the job are more junior in nature. You will also have a dedicated team of coordinators working in partnership with you to find and secure these opportunities where employers are provided with subsidies to hire students (i.e. they get a tax credit when hiring Co-op students). If you complete all 3 required Co-op work terms, you will will graduate with at least 12 months of full-time, relevant work experience giving you an edge in the job market post-graduation. If at any point in the program you decide to withdraw from Co-op, remember that you can no longer gain access to positions eligible for registered Co-op students, so keep this in mind when reviewing other opportunities outside of Co-op.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Do both! Co-op is an excellent way to land your first Co-op/internship if you are jsut entering the world of tech. This is because there are jobs exclusive to students; therefore, those job postigs have smaller pools of competition and the expectations of the job are more junior in nature. You will also have a dedicated team of coordinators working in partnership with you to find and secure these opportunities where employers are provided with subsidies to hire students (i.e. they get a tax credit when hiring Co-op students). If you complete all 3 required Co-op work terms, you will graduate with at least 12 months of full-time, relevant work experience giving you an edge in the job market post-graduation. If at any point in the program you decide to withdraw from Co-op, remember that you can no longer gain access to positions eligible for registered Co-op students, so keep this in mind when reviewing other opportunities outside of Co-op.
```

#### Can I apply for internships not on mySuccess while in Co-op?

Yes! If you apply for jobs outside of Co-op provided job postings, you are conducting a Guided Job Search. When conducting a Guided Job Search, you may need to reach out to coop@uwindsor.ca before applying. Please see each situation below:

> Within Windsor/Essex County/Chatham-Kent (In-person role): Reach out to coop@uwindsor.ca before applying

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't mention it as an end all be all. I would mention that going through Co-op can help students chances.

Outside Windsor/Essex County/Chatham-Kent (In-person role): Apply on your own
Online (Remote role): Apply on your own

Please remember though, if you are enrolled in Co-op, you only apply to jobs during your assigned Job Competition period. The reason being is that there are many administrative tasks that go on behind the scenes (checking work permits, confirming Co-op registration, etc.) to ensure students can enter placements legally and smoothly. Not doing so can result in your Co-op placement being denied by the Co-op department.

#### Do grades matter?

> For most Co-op applications you must submit your transcript. Smaller/local companies amy look at grades. However, for opportunities outside of Co-op's postings, you will not need to submit your transcripts for 99% of applications.

Reviewer 2: I think mentioning something about that even when required to submit a transcript, most jobs dont care and just use it as a way to be certain that you are enrolled
